# Tapology-Scraper

## Disclaimer
This project was created for educational purposes _only_. According to Tapology's [Terms of Use](https://www.tapology.com/terms_of_use), web scraping and using the site's data for commercial purposes are strictly prohibited&mdash;use at your own risk. 

I will not be updating this repository.

## Description
Tapology is one of the most data-rich websites related to MMA but also presents difficulties for developers who are looking to obtain this information systematically. These obstacles include JavaScript-based pagination, unique website structure, and anti-scraping measures to name a few. As an avid UFC fan and programmer, I saw this as an interesting challenge to tackle.

I've focused my efforts on UFC data, rooted [here](https://www.tapology.com/fightcenter?group=ufc&schedule=results&sport=mma). You can find a subset of the output generated by running the spider for the most recent event at the time of writing, UFC 296, [here](sample_data/data_subset.json).

## Usage
1. Clone/fork this repository.

2. Create a virtual environment, activate it, and install the requirements. For reference, this project was created in Python 3.9.18.
```
conda create -n myenv python=3.9 pip
conda activate myenv
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Navigate into the Scrapy project directory.
```
cd tapology_scraper
```

4. Run the spider with the `scrape_type` argument set to either `all` or `most_recent`. The option `all` will scrape all(*) past UFC event, fight, and fighter data. The option `most_recent` corresponds to data associated with just the most recent event.
```
scrapy crawl tapology_spider -a scrape_type=all
scrapy crawl tapology_spider -a scrape_type=most_recent
```
If you'd like to output the data to a JSON, add `-o data.json` to the end of one of the above commands. Otherwise, implement your own handling of the scraped items in `pipelines.py`, which has been left blank for the user.

---
(*) Tapology has very strong anti-scraping defenses in place (kudos to them). As a result, using the code as is with the `scrape_type=all` option will 100% get you IP-blocked after some time. This is by design and I will not discuss methods to circumvent these measures.
